The next thing we're going to add to our
Twitter app is, Favorites interactivity,
by which I mean, the ability to click that
like button, to like, or unlike, a tweet.
So, we're going to introduce a new
concept here called an input type.
And you can think of this as
kind of a reusable object type
that you might refer to in variables for
your mutations or for your queries.
So, we'll add this to our schema.
And let's put it up here right below the
top level, query and mutation route types.
And then we're gonna add
our two new mutations,
CreateFavorite and deleteFavorite.
And we'll look at those in a second.
Deleting our plus signs from the diff.
So, looking closely at
these new mutations,
note that we have
an argument called favorite,
and we're referring to favorite
input in both of these cases.
So you think of it just sort of like
a reusable object type that you can
refer to by name.
You're never querying this thing and
getting a result back that looks like
this, it's really for variables only.
So next,
we're going to go to the tweet component.
I think this is the first time
we've touched this component.
So, let's add all these
imports to tweet.tsx.
So add them right at the bottom.
And there's gonna be a mutation for
sure, two of them.
So, we're going to say CreateFavorite and
deleteFavorite in each case we're
passing in a favorite input variable,
which is gonna contain, of course,
the tweetid and the userid.
And what we're gonna get back is
just the id of the like, right?
The id of the Favorite
entity we just created.
Given that there's not a whole lot of
interesting stuff that we can do with
the information we get back, this will
at least tell us something persisted.
So we're gonna paste this
right above the component.
And as usual codegen,
on server, on the client,
To get all of our types updated.
So, we're gonna take on
the backend work first.
To begin, we're going to need to import
the favoriteTransform into
our mutation resolvers.
So we'll go to mutation.ts and
add this import.
In fact if I use organized imports,
What happened there?
[LAUGH] I hadn't used it yet.
So it removed it, it's like,
I kinda told it to.
I can do this one manually.
We have an existing import up there and
it bugs me to have multiple things coming
from one module if I can avoid it.
So we're gonna add two new async resolvers
that have to do with creating and
deleting a Favorite.
This is all going to go into mutation.ts.
These are top level things
that are happening.
And looks like things are type
checking as we hoped.
So, these are both very similar,
so I'm just gonna go over one and
then point out the one
difference between these two.
So, we're getting favorite as
an argument is of type Favoriteinput,
which as you would hope is gonna have,
A tweetid and
a userid just as we defined
in our graph QL schema.
So there's our generated types,
working well for us.
We're going to create a favorite,
which returns a promise.
When it resolves we get a db favorite.
This is that flat entity that gets up
serialized as a JSON object in our
database.
Then we're going to return
the transformed favorite object, right?
This here transform, that is my own
word that I'm using to describe
converting from a database representation
to a graph QL representation.
And we're adding these
embedded records here.
Getting a user by id,
transforming the tweet, right?
We could probably do some more stuff here
in terms of caching and things like that.
However, remember, this kind of operation
we gotta think about this end end,
like when is this happening.
This is proportional to
a user clicking in the UI.
So I don't expect this to happen like n
plus one times, this is a top level thing.
It is not something we're iterating
over a list of things, and
we're fetching the tweet and fetching
the userid, so this is probably okay.
We don't really need to think
about optimizing this too much.
If I were doing this for real,
I would almost surely want
to check to make sure that
the user we get back is valid and
that we're not creating tweets for
users who do not exist in the system,
or likes for
tweets that don't exist in the system.
So there's our CreateFavorite,
and look at that.
This is the only thing that's different,
deleteFavorite, that's it.
They're both async, they both return
the entity you're operating on,
either the thing that was just created or
the thing you just destroyed.
Everything else is the same.
All right,
time to gonna go to the front end.
So we're gonna go to tweet.tsx.
We'll start using the id so we can remove
this underscore in front of it and
simplify things.
And then we're going to create again
two things that look very similar,
I'm gonna paste them in and
we will talk about them.
So, right before we return,
Here, I'm gonna paste this
stuff from the website.
So, and we gotta change that id thing
up here cuz we're using this now.
So, what's going on?
We are using newly created
mutations that correspond
to these new operations we
created up here, right?
So these are the things we're
importing from our generated code,
down here, we're just using
them in their react hooks.
What are we getting back?
We're getting back the function we
use to actually perform the mutation.
We're getting back an err, and
I'm having to sort of alias that property
because we have two of them now.
And down here I wanna be
able to disambiguate between
err creating the Favorite versus
err deleting the Favorite, but
everything else you
should have already seen.
Now, this is where I'm doing something,
I'm advising you don't think about things
quite this way when you're
doing your own code.
We're being very heavy handed
in terms of prefetching queries.
This will get the UI working, but
I don't think we need to fetch all this
information and like boil the ocean
just because we'd like to tweet.
I'm optimizing for different things here.
Like teaching you a set of
concepts in a particular order,
not making you jump around to
a bunch of different files.
So, if you're feeling like
this is a bit ridiculous, and
that you wouldn't do this in a non
training project, I hear you.
But this will make it work,
when we fetch a lot of things.
All right, now,
we're going to replace the contents
of the handleFavoriteClick function
that's in the same component with this.
And similar to when we created a tweet and
we had that synchronous placeholder
method that was just there already
wired up to the react stuff,
now we're dealing with something that's
async, and so we got to catch the err.
This is always a good practice
when you have a dangling promise.
This means that you at least get
some feedback if things blow up.
And it's just generally good thing to do.
Good for your future selves to leave so
you have clues to track
down when things go wrong.
So, up here is this
handleFavoriteClick method.
And we're gonna replace this thing that
used to console log based on is favorited.
And now, we still switch based on this.
And it's create or
delete based on that variable.
We still see a red thing,
get current user from app.
Save to bump the ts server.
Are you happy now?
It is not.
Why is this not happy?
Did I rename that foolishly?
I did, I replaced all current,
sorry that's my bad.
I did an aggressive ctrl f and replace.
No harm done.
I wanna check one more place to make
sure I didn't really screw things up our
timeline.
Sorry, I'm just trying to think
where else might have used that.
Nope, what's being used here, that
didn't get changed, I think we're good.
Okay, so we should now check to see
whether we can like and unlike tweets.
So let's refresh, click some hearts.
Hey, look, the counts are going up.
And unlike, count goes down to 0,
to 1, to 5, to 4.
This is all using set
state behind the scenes.
Again, a little,
there's a lot of data fetching
that's happening in the background.
But on the one hand, it's a little
overkill for such a simple interaction,
and we probably could wrap this in a
container component and validate something
on a little smaller scope, like
invalidate the data on a smaller scope.
On the other hand, what we're doing
here is gonna be proportional to a user
interaction that's not gonna happen
like 1000 times a minute, so
no one's gonna be melting down
a data center due to this.
Great, our Favorites are interactive.